things have fallen in place along the
way and we continue to work on it and
now that we have it more than halfway
finished you know it I don't think
there's any turning back for us but the
other people who are out there that will
they're supportive some like the state
of Oklahoma who supplies funding and
others who hopefully will supply funding
they know it's a serious project this
one is no longer a dream but it's
becoming a reality and you know you
mentioned sent occurred something
happened right before it was about a
week before he passed on I got this
telephone call and it was from him and
while he didn't have to make me promise
he did he made me promise that we
wouldn't give up that we like this make
this thing in reality and I don't know
that I've told anybody that but I had
the greatest of respect and admiration
for this man because he it was
non-indian it grabbed hold on this and
saw there was the thing to do and
approach it with passion and dedication
until the very last day it was life and
with that inspiration how could we give
up I don't want to be like Moses where
he didn't get to go to the promised land
I've worked on this with you and many
other people are cultural center so long
it I want to be there when it opens up
most certainly I've been there too and
we do what we do because of family or
people you know and because we're driven
to do it but at least these different
folks that we serve you know that's why
I work woohoo that's why I've worked out
longest for my family and for the people
that I serve
you know that and that their future is
so important and you know where we're
here whatever we do today we should be
doing good things they're going to
affect our family for generations to
come our people for generations to come
there is no Lindy in philosophy from the
air Coy's and very few people know that
it was actually the problem others woman
who decided who the leaders of the tribe
was going to be so the women have always
been a strong part but when the
philosophies they had about government
is to make a decision that would last
eight generations so whenever you think
about that thing we are thinking we need
to make a decision that's going to make
a positive difference for you know great
great great great grandchildren
with a close-knit community and with the
close family that you had what do you
think your parents would say today if
they were here to know that you've come
home to the community that supports you
Cheyenne people that that you have been
a part of the building the development
the existence of a Cheyenne Arapaho
tribal college what do you think they
would say about that I believe my
grandfather would be most happy I can
remember when I was planning to leave
the state to to go to my first teaching
job in California that he was always
very careful to never speak English
around me it was always Cheyenne so that
I would continue to to remember our
language but he spoke English to me that
one day enough they must have really
wanted to emphasize it because he says
to me yo yo which was this nickname for
me he said there is no home like a home
in Oklahoma and that's probably the
longest sentence I ever heard my
grandfather speak in English just
letting me know that that my roots were
here and that my home is here and that
regardless of where i was going to go
that there would always be this tie to
this land here into this place called
called Hammond this place in Oklahoma
and it must have taken a great deal of
forethought on my grandfather's part for
him to remind me that there is no place
like one's home whether it is in
Oklahoma or some other part part of the
world but this is the home this is the
home that are our grandparents brought
us to several generations back this is
the place where they put down their
roots it was a new earth as we called it
a new environment and so it's it's home
to us now and I believe that Lee as well
my grandfather really meant when he told
me that there's no
place like a home in Oklahoma I believe
he would be very proud that that I have
returned here to to his homeland and I
believe that my father too would have
really appreciated that